                           ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                            PROCESS PROPOSAL

                             Yasushi Sakai
                           ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━


                            2021-03-16 13:17



Citizens and Working Groups will run the Makuhari City’s Governance
Model using RFCs (Request for Comments).

There will be two types of RFCs, each corresponding to the working
group. One is the Infrastructure Working Group that oversees the City’s
Governance Model and the development and maintenance needed to build
consensus. The other is the Culture Working Group which overlooks the
city’s cultural values and projects relate to the goal.

RFCs will take three phases, Draft, Approved, InProgress, Terminated.
RFCs will be advanced phases by pull requests. After the first Pull
Request, the issue number is used as the RFCs’ ID number.

Any citizen can submit a draft proposal of either type (Infrastructural
or Cultural) of a proposal to the drafts directory of the RFCs
repository.

It is advised that the citizen discusses using the city’s communication
channel (matrix.metacity.jp or equivalent) to gauge the interest.

Once it is ready to get approved, the author submits a pull request, and
the target working group will function as the chair of that approval
process. After sufficient amount of deliberation, the working group will
define a final call for comments period to ensure all citizens are
informed and have time to discuss. Any offline meeting should be shared
in the city’s communication channel. After the due date of the final
call for comments period, there will be a three-day period to vote using
the city’s consensus mechanism. A 2/3 supermajority will need to have
the RFC approved.

If the RFC is a fixed duration project, once approved, the working group
will send another pull request to advance the RFC to InProgress. The
original author of the RFC will be assigned to accept this PR.

If a fixed duration project comes to an end of its term or an updated
version of the RFC is approved, the RFC is moded to the Terminated
directory.
